---
Title: Increase virtual disk size in VirtualBox on Windows 7: Step-by-step
Date: 2012-05-26 08:02
Tags: R, Python, coding, comparison, programming, Language, unofficial, tabular, summary, paradigm, datascience, statistical-analytics, analytics
Slug: increase-virtual-disk-size-in-virtualbox-windows7-opensuse
Status: Draft
Summary: Stuck with your small virtual disk partition for VirtualBox? You created for some testing & practicing, now it needs space. I also stuck with same problem; researched many forums, and here is the gist. Find out how.

---
 
Stuck with your small virtual disk partition for VirtualBox? You created for some testing & practicing, now it needs space. I also stuck with same problem; researched many forums, and here is the gist.

[Note: This procedure won't work for VM with snapshots. So, plz take note about your system beforehand. ]

Download Gparted, disk manager for Linux. It'll come as an ISO file.
Boot into your guest OS, check,  with df command,  which partition you need to grow. Take note of that specific mounted HD, such as /dev/hdb/sda3
Take backup of your existing data, as I WILL NOT TAKE ANY RESPONSIBILITY IF YOU DAMAGE YOUR DATA.
In host OS, Goto the command prompt by running, cmd.exe
Navigate to the Virtualbox installation folder
Execute command: VBoxManage modifyhd X:\yourVM_DiskPath_InHost\yourVM_Disk.vdi  --resize 40960 you will see progress as below:

 
If you fail with message like "VBoxManage.exe: error: Resize hard disk operation for this format is not impleme
nted yet! ", you need to use this tool (CloneVDI.exe) from this VirtualBox forum-post. If using this tool, remember to check "Increase virtual drive size to " with your desired size.
VDI_tool
Now, Load the ISO file to the CD/DVD drive of your virtual Linux

GParted.iso loaded on IDE Primary Master
Boot the Guest OS; from the boot menu, select CD/DVD drive, then it will be booted in GParted tiny OS,
Now the PartitionManager tool will come up automatically, like below:

Now shrink/Grow or Move your desired partion, but be careful. Don't rename them and care about your data.
Don't worry, unless you clicked Apply, nothing has happened really. When you are done with moving and resizing, you have to click Apply to commit the change

when completed, close Gparted, and then shutdown the OS
Unload the ISO aka virtual CD from virtual OS
Boot into the OS again
Now, check that if the desired partition grew or not by df command
Thanks for visiting my blog. Please don't forget to "Like" or "+1" be clicking below.  Also, your suggestion or comment would be greatly helpful.

You may also like to encourage me by buying me a coffee.
